# About the Project

This project details our analysis of the Internet Movie Database (IMDb), a free, user maintained, online resource of production details for over 390,000 movies, television series and video games, which contains information such as title, genre, box-office taking, cast credits and users ratings. We gather a series of interesting facts and relationships using a variety of data analysis techniques. In particular, we concentrate on attributes relevant to the user ratings of movies. The project also reports on the techniques used, giving their implementation and usefulness.
The IMDb is an excellent resource to find detailed information about almost any film ever made. It contains a vast amount of data, which undoubtedly contains much valuable information about general trends in films. Data mining techniques enable us to uncover information which will both confirm or disprove common assumptions about movies, and also allow us to predict the success of a future film given select information about the film before its release. The main difficulty in attempting to use data mining to extract useful information from the IMDb is the format of the source
data – it is only available in a number of inconsistently structured text files. We have found that the IMDb is difficult to perform data analysis upon, due to the format of the source data. We also found some interesting facts, such as the budget of a film is no indication of how well-rated it will be, there is a downward trend in the quality of films over time.

For visualization and analysis of various parameters related to movie genre, ratings and popularity trends [Tableau Dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/sushant.batra/viz/IMDb_Movies_Dashboard/IMDbDashboard) was created.
